---
name: Getting started
permalink: '/cli/getting-started'
description: 'Getting started with preact CLI documentation'
---

# Installation

To get started with Preact CLI, install it from [npm](https://npmjs.com/package/preact-cli):

```shell
npm i -g preact-cli
```

This installs a global `preact` command, which we'll use to set up a new project.

## Project creation

### Templates

Use one of our official templates to get started

- **Default**

This template is a great starting point for most applications. It comes with `preact-router` and a couple of sample routes and does route-based code splitting by default.

- **Simple**

A "bare-bones" template, starting from a "Hello World" application. If you're looking to choose your own tools or already have a setup in mind, this is a good way to start.

- **Material**

This template comes pre-configured with [preact-material-components](https://material.preactjs.com) and a small example app to get you started quickly and easily.

- **Netlify CMS**

Looking to set up a blog? Look no further! This template gives you a simple and elegant Preact-powered blog that you can edit using [Netlify CMS](https://www.netlifycms.org/).

To get started with any of these templates, run `preact create` to create a new project with your template of choice:

```sh
preact create <template-name> <app-name>
```

Now that your project is set up, you can `cd` into the newly-created directory and start a development server:

```sh
cd <app-name>
npm run dev
```

Now open your editor and start editing! For most templates, the best place to start is `src/index.js` or `src/components/app/index.js`.

## Production builds

The `npm run build` command compiles a production-ready build of your application and places it in `build` directory at the project root.

Production builds can be fine-tuned to match your needs with a series of flags. Find the full list of flags [here](https://github.com/preactjs/preact-cli#preact-build).

**Usage Example:**

e.g.

This will generate webpack's asset json which can be used in a webpack [analyzer](https://chrisbateman.github.io/webpack-visualizer/).

```sh
preact build --json
```

## Editing index.html

If you want to add or edit the markup generated by `preact-cli` to add meta tags, custom scripts or fonts, then you can edit `src/template.html`:
This is generated by `preact-cli` v3 and is rendered using [EJS](https://ejs.co/).

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8">
    <title><% preact.title %></title>
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width,initial-scale=1">
    <meta name="mobile-web-app-capable" content="yes">
    <meta name="apple-mobile-web-app-capable" content="yes">
    <% preact.headEnd %>
  </head>
  <body>
    <% preact.bodyEnd %>
  </body>
</html>
```

> **Note:** if you're upgrading from an old version, you can create a `src/template.html`, and it will be used the next time you build the application or start the development server.
